Find We'll come back in the studio we're going to look at what is a set and a set and a list are very
similar sets are extremely underused in Python I believe especially by beginners list as we've seen
it is just a collection of things and you can put whatever you want inside the list.
For example we can put a list of numbers like so.
And in this list we can have the number three multiple times if we want and then when we save that and
get it's value we can see that there's for three years and 16 7 and 4 in there a list is kind of like
a string in the sense that the list just stores whatever you want to put in it.
And Python doesn't try and be smart with lists.
If you give it four times the number three it will just store the number three four times.
It is just a collection of items.
A scent is slightly smarter because it removes duplicates in a list.
So essentially when you get a set and you put the number three twice in it you end up with only one
number three.
So let's try that.
Let's now say that our number is variable instead of being that list is going to be a set and that is
the way that we tell Python that we want to initialize a set.
So there we go.
And now when we get the value of numbers out it is an empty set.
However we can add values to a set.
For example we can say numbers don't add and then add the number three.
And if we get the numbers out now we see that it has changed but it's still a set.
And now it is then stated with these curly braces as opposed to the list which uses square brackets
.
So our numbers list now has one element which is a 3.
So let's try to add three again and now get the value out.
And notice that it remains unchanged because the number three was already there.
We tried to add it again but a scent is always made up of unique elements.
So we cannot add the number three again where we can but it just won't go in.
It will just get ignored because it's already there.
Now let's create two sets.
I'm going to call one lottery values and we can define a sent link.
So for an empty set with a word set and then open and close bracket that defines an empty set.
Or we can define a set just with the numbers here.
So let's define the lottery numbers as this set the has four unique elements.
So now our lottery values is this set has four unique elements.
And notice how the order of the elements has changed because the set is also unordered.
That is not order in a set.
Every time you print it out the order may be different.
So these are not really values.
And then our use of values.
These are the numbers of buter has picked and these can be something like 3 5 11 and 2.
So the user values contains these numbers and notice how Also the order has once again changed slightly
.
So these two cents have some numbers in common.
They have three.
They have five in common right.
So there are two different views on sense.
The way we're going to see them just now is a few more but we're only going to look at two in this video
.
Let me show you one set which is this one here non-intersecting 6 as we can see in this picture we've
got two cents.
Each set is represented by a circle and set a has Number 1 3 5 and 6 set to be has numbers 2 4 7 and
8.
There are no numbers between the two that are identical.
So we say that these hands are non intersecting.
And what that means is that there are no numbers that are the same in both sets.
There are no elements that are the same in both sets.
Remember that a set can contain things other than numbers.
It doesn't have to be numbers only.
So in these two sense there are no identical numbers.
So for example if we added two sets together these two sets together we would get an resultants set
with eight elements because no duplicates would be removed because they're all different.
This is different from this other example in which we have set a with a values 1 and 3 Set B with the
values 2 and 4.
And the intersection of both sets is the value 5 and 6.
That means that the values 5 and 6 are in both sets.
That means that A is actually one of the three but also 5 and 6 and set B is 2 and 4 but also 5 and
6.
So five and six are in both sets and we represent that with an intersection between the two circles
.
So what would happen therefore if we intersected these two sets if we calculated the intersection between
lottery values and use of values
which is how we would calculate it lottery values dot intersection and then say the brackets of the
intersection we would put the sense that we want to intersect with.
So what do you think is going to come out of this.
And the result is another set which contains the elements that are in the intersection which is 3 and
5.
In this case notice that we can also do use a values dot intersection set of values.
It's the same thing because it doesn't matter the order in this case.
So there we have it the intersection of these two sets is the number of numbers.
What the actual numbers that are identical between both.
So that is going to be useful for our application to be able to calculate how many numbers they use
are matched from the lottery.
The lottery is going to generate a few random numbers.
The user is going to pick some numbers and then we're going to compare and see how many numbers that
you got.
Right.
And then we're going to calculate the winnings from that sets are an essential part of mathematics and
they are also very useful in programming to do things like these where you've got unique elements and
you have to calculate how many are in what else.
So very useful mathematical entity and also very useful in programming.
And this is how you calculate the intersection.
There are also a few other things that we can calculate with sets but we're not going to get into them
just in this section because we won't need it for this application.
But nevertheless Python can use sense for a few other things such as unions and subtractions.
We will maybe look at those later on in the course.
That's everything for this video we've looked at what a set is and how we can use it.
So we're going to move on into the next video where we're going to start working on our app.
So either